README.md, before:

**Your ML-Powered Personal Operating System for Peak Productivity**

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-1.28+-FF4B4B.svg)](https://streamlit.io)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)

ClarityFlow is an AI-powered productivity tracker that learns YOUR personal patterns and helps you work smarter, not harder. Unlike generic task managers, ClarityFlow uses machine learning to understand how YOU work and provides personalized insights.

![ClarityFlow Dashboard](assets/dashboard_screenshot.png)

---

## ✨ Features

### 🎯 **5 Core ML-Powered Features**

#### 1. **Execution Drift Analyzer** 
- **What it does**: Predicts how long tasks ACTUALLY take based on YOUR historical data
- **The problem**: You estimate 30 minutes, it takes 75 minutes
- **The solution**: XGBoost model trained on your personal execution patterns
- **Impact**: Stop lying to yourself about timeboxes

#### 2. **Cognitive Load Detector**
- **What it does**: Real-time mental workload calculation
- **The problem**: Your calendar says "free," your brain says "fried"
- **The solution**: 5-factor formula analyzing task density, complexity, meetings, context switches, and deadlines
- **Impact**: Prevent burnout BEFORE it happens

#### 3. **AI Task Prioritization**
- **What it does**: Ranks tasks by actual importance, not just what feels urgent
- **The problem**: Spending all day on low-impact work
- **The solution**: 5-factor AI scoring (urgency + impact + effort + energy + strategic value) powered by GPT-4o-mini
- **Impact**: Work on what MATTERS, not what's LOUD

#### 4. **Productivity Rhythm Tracker**
- **What it does**: Discovers your personal peak performance times
- **The problem**: Scheduling deep work when your brain is on vacation
- **The solution**: ML pattern analysis revealing your focus patterns by hour and day
- **Impact**: Schedule strategically based on YOUR biology

#### 5. **Schedule Realism Scorer**
- **What it does**: Tells you if your schedule is actually achievable
- **The problem**: Over-committing and disappointing everyone (including yourself)
- **The solution**: AI-validated capacity planning using predicted durations (not your optimistic estimates)
- **Impact**: Set realistic expectations backed by data

---

## 🎨 Live Demo

### **Productivity Rhythm Heatmap**
Discover when you're most productive:

![Productivity Heatmap](assets/heatmap.png)

*This heatmap shows my peak focus is Tuesday mornings at 10 AM with medium-complexity tasks!*

### **AI Priority Matrix**
Let AI rank your tasks by what actually matters:

![Priority Matrix](assets/priority_matrix.png)

*Eisenhower Matrix powered by machine learning - know what to tackle first*

### **Focus Landscape**
See your productivity patterns across time and task complexity:

![Focus Landscape](assets/focus_landscape.png)

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### **Prerequisites**
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip package manager

### **Installation**

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/clarityflow.git
cd clarityflow

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the app
streamlit run app.py
```

The app will open in your browser at `http://localhost:8501`

---

## 📦 Tech Stack

| Component | Technology | Why |
|-----------|-----------|-----|
| **Frontend** | Streamlit | Rapid prototyping, interactive widgets |
| **ML Models** | XGBoost, scikit-learn | Execution drift prediction, pattern recognition |
| **AI Integration** | OpenAI GPT-4o-mini | Strategic task prioritization |
| **Visualization** | Plotly, ECharts | Interactive charts, 3D surfaces |
| **Data Processing** | Pandas, NumPy | Task analytics, time series analysis |

---

## 🎯 How It Works

### **1. Data Collection**
Track tasks with:
- Estimated duration
- Actual duration (once completed)
- Task type (coding, meeting, admin, etc.)
- Complexity score (1-5)
- Time of day
- Focus level
- Interruptions

### **2. ML Training**
After 20+ completed tasks:
- XGBoost model learns YOUR time estimation patterns
- Pattern recognition identifies personal productivity rhythms
- Historical analysis reveals cognitive load thresholds

### **3. Predictions & Insights**
- **Real-time** drift predictions for new tasks
- **Dynamic** cognitive load monitoring
- **AI-powered** task prioritization
- **Personalized** scheduling recommendations

---

## 📊 Key Differentiators

### **vs Todoist/Asana**
> They track tasks. We track YOU.

### **vs RescueTime/Toggl**
> They show what happened. We predict what WILL happen.

### **vs Motion/Reclaim.ai**
> They optimize calendars. We optimize YOUR BRAIN.

---

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
clarityflow/
├── app.py                          # Main Streamlit application
├── core/
│   └── models.py                   # Task data models
├── features/
│   ├── execution_drift.py          # XGBoost drift prediction
│   ├── cognitive_load.py           # Mental workload calculation
│   ├── task_prioritization.py     # AI priority scoring
│   ├── productivity_rhythm.py     # Pattern analysis
│   └── schedule_realism.py        # Capacity validation
├── assets/
│   ├── dashboard_screenshot.png
│   ├── heatmap.png
│   └── logo.png
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md
```

---

## 🔮 Roadmap

### **Phase 1: Core Features** ✅ (Complete)
- [x] Execution drift prediction
- [x] Cognitive load monitoring
- [x] AI task prioritization
- [x] Productivity rhythm analysis
- [x] Schedule realism scoring

### **Phase 2: Advanced Analytics** 🚧 (In Progress)
- [ ] Focus landscape 3D visualization
- [ ] Multi-week trend analysis
- [ ] Team productivity benchmarking
- [ ] Integration with Google Calendar
- [ ] Slack notifications for overload warnings

### **Phase 3: Automation** 📋 (Planned)
- [ ] Auto-scheduling based on rhythm
- [ ] Smart task batching by energy level
- [ ] Predictive meeting optimization
- [ ] AI-powered time blocking

---

## 📈 Performance

### **Model Accuracy**
- **Execution Drift**: 87% accuracy within ±15 minutes (after 50 tasks)
- **Cognitive Load**: 91% correlation with self-reported stress
- **Priority Scoring**: 82% alignment with retrospective importance ratings

### **Scalability**
- Handles 1000+ tasks without performance degradation
- Real-time predictions (<100ms)
- Incremental model training

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch** (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. **Commit your changes** (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. **Push to the branch** (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. **Open a Pull Request**

### **Areas for Contribution**
- 🎨 UI/UX improvements
- 🤖 Additional ML models
- 📊 New visualization types
- 🔌 Third-party integrations (Notion, Asana, etc.)
- 📱 Mobile responsiveness
- 🧪 Unit tests

---

## 📝 Use Cases

### **For Developers**
- Discover when you code best (hint: probably not at 2 PM)
- Predict actual sprint capacity based on historical velocity
- Reduce context-switching by batching similar tasks

### **For Managers**
- Validate team capacity with data
- Identify burnout patterns early
- Set realistic deadlines backed by AI predictions

### **For Freelancers**
- Quote projects more accurately
- Optimize billable hours
- Balance client work with personal projects

---

## 🎓 Learning Resources

Built while learning:
- Machine Learning: [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/), [XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/)
- Data Visualization: [Plotly](https://plotly.com/), [ECharts](https://echarts.apache.org/)
- Streamlit: [Docs](https://docs.streamlit.io/), [Gallery](https://streamlit.io/gallery)

---

## 🐛 Known Issues

- [ ] Calendar integration not yet implemented
- [ ] Mobile view needs optimization
- [ ] Export to CSV feature pending
- [ ] Multi-user support not available

See [Issues](https://github.com/yourusername/clarityflow/issues) for full list.

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Inspiration**: Frustrated by inaccurate time estimates and calendar Tetris
- **UI Design**: Influenced by Linear, Notion, and modern SaaS aesthetics
- **ML Approach**: Adapted from personal time-tracking experiments over 6 months

---

## 📫 Contact

**Your Name**
- LinkedIn: [your-linkedin](https://linkedin.com/in/your-profile)
- Email: your.email@example.com
- Portfolio: [yourportfolio.com](https://yourportfolio.com)

---

## ⭐ Star History

If you find ClarityFlow useful, please consider starring the repo! It helps others discover the project.

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=yourusername/clarityflow&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#yourusername/clarityflow&Date)

---

<div align="center">

**Built with 🧠 and ☕ by [Your Name]**

[⬆ Back to Top](#-clarityflow)

</div>

Commit message:

Revise README with correct links and author name
Updated contact information and links in README.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 ClarityFlow

**Your ML-Powered Personal Operating System for Peak Productivity**

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-1.28+-FF4B4B.svg)](https://streamlit.io)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)

ClarityFlow is an AI-powered productivity tracker that learns YOUR personal patterns and helps you work smarter, not harder. Unlike generic task managers, ClarityFlow uses machine learning to understand how YOU work and provides personalized insights.

![ClarityFlow Dashboard](assets/dashboard_screenshot.png)

---

## ✨ Features

### 🎯 **5 Core ML-Powered Features**

#### 1. **Execution Drift Analyzer** 
- **What it does**: Predicts how long tasks ACTUALLY take based on YOUR historical data
- **The problem**: You estimate 30 minutes, it takes 75 minutes
- **The solution**: XGBoost model trained on your personal execution patterns
- **Impact**: Stop lying to yourself about timeboxes

#### 2. **Cognitive Load Detector**
- **What it does**: Real-time mental workload calculation
- **The problem**: Your calendar says "free," your brain says "fried"
- **The solution**: 5-factor formula analyzing task density, complexity, meetings, context switches, and deadlines
- **Impact**: Prevent burnout BEFORE it happens

#### 3. **AI Task Prioritization**
- **What it does**: Ranks tasks by actual importance, not just what feels urgent
- **The problem**: Spending all day on low-impact work
- **The solution**: 5-factor AI scoring (urgency + impact + effort + energy + strategic value) powered by GPT-4o-mini
- **Impact**: Work on what MATTERS, not what's LOUD

#### 4. **Productivity Rhythm Tracker**
- **What it does**: Discovers your personal peak performance times
- **The problem**: Scheduling deep work when your brain is on vacation
- **The solution**: ML pattern analysis revealing your focus patterns by hour and day
- **Impact**: Schedule strategically based on YOUR biology

#### 5. **Schedule Realism Scorer**
- **What it does**: Tells you if your schedule is actually achievable
- **The problem**: Over-committing and disappointing everyone (including yourself)
- **The solution**: AI-validated capacity planning using predicted durations (not your optimistic estimates)
- **Impact**: Set realistic expectations backed by data

---

## 🎨 Live Demo

### **Productivity Rhythm Heatmap**
Discover when you're most productive:

![Productivity Heatmap](assets/heatmap.png)

*This heatmap shows my peak focus is Tuesday mornings at 10 AM with medium-complexity tasks!*

### **AI Priority Matrix**
Let AI rank your tasks by what actually matters:

![Priority Matrix](assets/priority_matrix.png)

*Eisenhower Matrix powered by machine learning - know what to tackle first*

### **Focus Landscape**
See your productivity patterns across time and task complexity:

![Focus Landscape](assets/focus_landscape.png)

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

### **Prerequisites**
- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip package manager

### **Installation**

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/clarityflow.git
cd clarityflow

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the app
streamlit run app.py
```

The app will open in your browser at `http://localhost:8501`

---

## 📦 Tech Stack

| Component | Technology | Why |
|-----------|-----------|-----|
| **Frontend** | Streamlit | Rapid prototyping, interactive widgets |
| **ML Models** | XGBoost, scikit-learn | Execution drift prediction, pattern recognition |
| **AI Integration** | OpenAI GPT-4o-mini | Strategic task prioritization |
| **Visualization** | Plotly, ECharts | Interactive charts, 3D surfaces |
| **Data Processing** | Pandas, NumPy | Task analytics, time series analysis |

---

## 🎯 How It Works

### **1. Data Collection**
Track tasks with:
- Estimated duration
- Actual duration (once completed)
- Task type (coding, meeting, admin, etc.)
- Complexity score (1-5)
- Time of day
- Focus level
- Interruptions

### **2. ML Training**
After 20+ completed tasks:
- XGBoost model learns YOUR time estimation patterns
- Pattern recognition identifies personal productivity rhythms
- Historical analysis reveals cognitive load thresholds

### **3. Predictions & Insights**
- **Real-time** drift predictions for new tasks
- **Dynamic** cognitive load monitoring
- **AI-powered** task prioritization
- **Personalized** scheduling recommendations

---

## 📊 Key Differentiators

### **vs Todoist/Asana**
> They track tasks. We track YOU.

### **vs RescueTime/Toggl**
> They show what happened. We predict what WILL happen.

### **vs Motion/Reclaim.ai**
> They optimize calendars. We optimize YOUR BRAIN.

---

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
clarityflow/
├── app.py                          # Main Streamlit application
├── core/
│   └── models.py                   # Task data models
├── features/
│   ├── execution_drift.py          # XGBoost drift prediction
│   ├── cognitive_load.py           # Mental workload calculation
│   ├── task_prioritization.py     # AI priority scoring
│   ├── productivity_rhythm.py     # Pattern analysis
│   └── schedule_realism.py        # Capacity validation
├── assets/
│   ├── dashboard_screenshot.png
│   ├── heatmap.png
│   └── logo.png
├── requirements.txt
└── README.md
```

---

## 🔮 Roadmap

### **Phase 1: Core Features** ✅ (Complete)
- [x] Execution drift prediction
- [x] Cognitive load monitoring
- [x] AI task prioritization
- [x] Productivity rhythm analysis
- [x] Schedule realism scoring

### **Phase 2: Advanced Analytics** 🚧 (In Progress)
- [ ] Focus landscape 3D visualization
- [ ] Multi-week trend analysis
- [ ] Team productivity benchmarking
- [ ] Integration with Google Calendar
- [ ] Slack notifications for overload warnings

### **Phase 3: Automation** 📋 (Planned)
- [ ] Auto-scheduling based on rhythm
- [ ] Smart task batching by energy level
- [ ] Predictive meeting optimization
- [ ] AI-powered time blocking

---

## 📈 Performance

### **Model Accuracy**
- **Execution Drift**: 87% accuracy within ±15 minutes (after 50 tasks)
- **Cognitive Load**: 91% correlation with self-reported stress
- **Priority Scoring**: 82% alignment with retrospective importance ratings

### **Scalability**
- Handles 1000+ tasks without performance degradation
- Real-time predictions (<100ms)
- Incremental model training

---

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here's how you can help:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch** (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. **Commit your changes** (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. **Push to the branch** (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. **Open a Pull Request**

### **Areas for Contribution**
- 🎨 UI/UX improvements
- 🤖 Additional ML models
- 📊 New visualization types
- 🔌 Third-party integrations (Notion, Asana, etc.)
- 📱 Mobile responsiveness
- 🧪 Unit tests

---

## 📝 Use Cases

### **For Developers**
- Discover when you code best (hint: probably not at 2 PM)
- Predict actual sprint capacity based on historical velocity
- Reduce context-switching by batching similar tasks

### **For Managers**
- Validate team capacity with data
- Identify burnout patterns early
- Set realistic deadlines backed by AI predictions

### **For Freelancers**
- Quote projects more accurately
- Optimize billable hours
- Balance client work with personal projects

---

## 🎓 Learning Resources

Built while learning:
- Machine Learning: [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/), [XGBoost](https://xgboost.readthedocs.io/)
- Data Visualization: [Plotly](https://plotly.com/), [ECharts](https://echarts.apache.org/)
- Streamlit: [Docs](https://docs.streamlit.io/), [Gallery](https://streamlit.io/gallery)

---

## 🐛 Known Issues

- [ ] Calendar integration not yet implemented
- [ ] Mobile view needs optimization
- [ ] Export to CSV feature pending
- [ ] Multi-user support not available

See [Issues](https://github.com/ysergie-o/clarityflow/issues) for full list.

---

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Inspiration**: Frustrated by inaccurate time estimates and calendar Tetris
- **UI Design**: Influenced by Linear, Notion, and modern SaaS aesthetics
- **ML Approach**: Adapted from personal time-tracking experiments over 6 months

---

## 📫 Contact

**Your Name**
- LinkedIn: [https://www.linkedin.com/in/sergio-eguakun-machine-learning-engineer/]
- Email: sergioeguakun11@gmail.com


---

## ⭐ Star History

If you find ClarityFlow useful, please consider starring the repo! It helps others discover the project.

[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=yourusername/clarityflow&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#sergie-o/clarityflow&Date)

---

<div align="center">

**Built with 🧠 and ☕ by Sergio Eguakun**

[⬆ Back to Top](#-clarityflow)

</div>
